# ExpertSstemForVisuallyDisabled
Specialization Project

ABSTRACT

Image processing is the process of converting an image into a digital format and carrying out specific procedures to extract some usable information from it is known as image processing. When implementing certain specified signal processing techniques, the image processing system typically interprets all pictures as 2D signals. Using specialized software, optical character recognition (OCR) transforms scanned text images into electronic text so that digitized material may be searched, indexed, and retrieved.  image recognition refers to a computer program's capacity to recognize items, locations, persons, writing, and activities in pictures. To recognize images, computers can employ machine vision technology in conjunction with a camera and artificial intelligence software. Image recognition refers to a computer program's capacity to recognize items, locations, persons, writing, and activities in pictures. To recognize images, computers can employ machine vision technology in conjunction with a camera and artificial intelligence software. 

This application helps people that are visually challenged to carry on the tasks for which they are dependent on someone else to be done. This application covers the processes such as text-to-speech conversion for office documents, library books, and any other printed text document and campus tours for the students’ using audio output. This system can also be used for identifying any teacher based on the Face recognition concept and voicing out their details to the student. This complete system will majorly focus on the visually impaired students and help the students who are visiting the college for the first time. The development of this application aims to replace manual involvement with audio, and students do not need to rely on another person to complete the process.
